Updates business plan (vision, mission, risks, product info) (#6)
libscie/business-plan: README.md

This business plan is written both as a visioning exercise (future tense) and updated subsequently with what has happened (past tense). This is a living document. Versions of it may be stored at various snapshot dates to allow for evaluation of how the business plan evolves. The document provides a product analysis, a community analysis, and yearly plans.

## Vision

> This is the future we'd like to see and what motivates us to do this work. The vision should stay relatively fixed over time, although wording and emphasis may change, and is used to guide our decision making.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the future we'd like to see and what motivates us to do this work. The vision should stay relatively fixed over time, although wording and emphasis may change, and it is used to guide our decision making.
```

Otherwise it's not clear to me whether `is used` refers to the vision or the wording

### For science

> We want a publication process that empowers researchers to do great science. Science that is accessible to everyone, free for all to participate in and relevant to real-world problems. All research can be published, free from bias, time-consuming bureaucracy and centralised control. The research process is transparent from the start. Working together and building on each other's work is easy and free from restrictions.

Reviewer: I think we also want to enable science not relevant to real-world problems, or not-yet real-world problems

Author: Good point!

### For work

> A truly healthy and empowered work environment that is open, democratic and beneficial to workers, without being harmful to others or the planet.

Reviewer 2: Referring back to [the Shuttleworth application](https://github.com/libscie/funding/blob/master/2019/20190601shuttleworth.org) I'd propose to use similar language for consistency.

> "we provide workers with more agency, energy, money, and time to act on their beliefs."

Author: Great! Added :)

## Mission

> This is what we do to work towards our vision. This may change over time, as we discover that there are more effective ways to achieve our goals. The mission, like the vision, acts as a compass, but is more flexible. It is what we live day to day right now, but might not be exactly what we live day to day by next year.

Reviewer: great idea to differentiate!

### For science

> We build tools that enable researchers to focus on what matters most, their research, while upholding important open science principles by design. We raise awareness to issues arising from the current publication system and build a community interested in improving this system.

Reviewer 2: "actively improving this system"?

Like the clarity in the writing 🙌

Author: Added! And thanks :)

### For work

> While working on our research tools, we live the changes we want to see in the workplace by developing an *open worker co-operative* organisation model and applying it to our own work. We improve the model along the way, learning from our own experiences as an open worker co-op.

Reviewer: > we live the changes we want to see in the workplace

♥

> While working on our research tools, we live the changes we want to see in the workplace by developing an *open worker co-operative* organisation model and applying it to our own work. We improve the model along the way, learning from our own experiences as an open worker co-op.

Reviewer 2: What is the core of the open worker-coop? Or where can I find that information?

May be relevant or not, but can be found [here](https://github.com/libscie/funding/blob/master/2019/20190601shuttleworth.org#what-change-do-you-want-to-make-in-the-world)

> Fundamental organisational changes are that workers:
      - all have one vote, electing who manages
      - 7 hour workdays
      - uniform base pay for members, variable pay to incentivize unwanted tasks
      - direct budgetary profit sharing

Author: I think this is relevant here, as it's not evident what an open worker co-op is or does. I've adjusted 7 hour workdays to include 4 day workweeks as an alternative.

The design for this commons infrastructure originated from redesigning scholarly communication (see also [here](https://doi.org/10.3390/publications6020021) and [here](https://doi.org/10.3390/publications7020040)), but can be generalized to any iterative, creative, collaborative process (e.g., journalism, music production, book writing) that values provenance. The main added value is that all steps are chronologically communicated and link and that the commons infrastructure lives on the peer-to-peer protocol Dat.

The specifications aim to formalize both the minimum specifications for a communicable unit on the commons (i.e., a module), plus the storage and indexation on a device (for interoperability purposes). The range of specifications may be extended over time, but the values underlying it are that they provide a stable commons infrastructure upon which to build applications. Software Development Kits that are implemented in accordance with the specifications are provided for application development.

## Product 1: Hypergraph

> [Hypergraph](https://github.com/hypergraph-xyz) is our publication tool that empowers researchers to do great science. Hypergraph intends to reduce friction in the research process, while promoting modular *as-you-go* publication and ensuring open access and participation, clear provenance and decentralised control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Hypergraph](https://github.com/hypergraph-xyz) is our set of publication tools that empowers researchers to do great science. Hypergraph intends to reduce friction in the research process, while promoting modular *as-you-go* publication and ensuring open access and participation, clear provenance and decentralised control. 
```

Reviewer: There's Desktop, CLI, and the Vault also seems to be part of that family?

## Product 2: Hypergraph Vault

Hypergraph Vault is our registration and archival service for Hypergraph that provides researchers with a cheap, central location to have their work stored safely and findable by others.

> The work includes building a database instance to store the contents of the Vault, a Docker container to deploy for server rehosting based on that database, and integrating a payment process into Hypergraph using [Stripe](https://stripe.com/en-de/payments) to add modules to the database. Modules MAY be in the Vault if people choose so, but it is not a necessity; Hypergraph will implement this as a requirement for registration of content modules. The added value is persistent availability and findability (the Vault is immediately searchable in Hypergraph by default). In order to get a module in the centralized Vault, a small fee must be paid; 1EUR.

Reviewer: the "available forever" goal seems to be understressed

Author: Updated!

Product 2 also allows the organization to gain experience in integrating payment infrastructures (e.g., Stripe API, bookkeeping, paying international VAT). This is a simple product and provides a stepping stone towards more complex and larger payments in Product 3; this also serves as a clear counterweight to the Article Processing Charges (APCs) of large publishing houses exceeding hundreds or thousands of dollars (see for example [here](https://peerj.com/preprints/27809/)).

## Product 3: Network analyses

> Our network analyses will provide a powerful and more specific alternative to traditional "impact" metrics for scientific publications. The results from these analyses will be better tailored to the enquirer's needs than traditional metrics, which we hope will allow researchers to direct more of their attention to doing great research. 

Reviewer: what does "better tailored" mean, and how are we going to achieve that?

Author: I've updated this in the latest commit, but now your comment is showing as outdated. What would be a better way to do this? Suggest changes myself in the review? I find the GitHub doc for responding to a review is a bit lacking.

## Product 2: Hypergraph Vault

Hypergraph Vault is our registration and archival service for Hypergraph that provides researchers with a cheap, central location to have their work stored safely, available forever and findable by others.

> The work includes building a database instance to store the contents of the Vault, a Docker container to deploy for server rehosting based on that database, and integrating a payment process into Hypergraph using [Stripe](https://stripe.com/en-de/payments) to add modules to the database. Modules MAY be in the Vault if people choose so, but it is not a necessity; Hypergraph will implement this as a requirement for registration of content modules. The added value is persistent availability and findability (the Vault is immediately searchable in Hypergraph by default). In order to get a module in the centralized Vault, a small fee must be paid; 1EUR.

Reviewer 2: Could we change the mentions of "registration" to "publication"? This is the result of https://github.com/p2pcommons/specs/issues/19 that is now not really consistent (mentioning also for when you see other uses).

It doesn't need to be included here, but I'd like to talk sometime about our monitoring approach for costs p/module in the Vault. We'll always have 1EUR options, but we'd need to check how big modules are, how much our costs are to run the full system etc.

Author: Done! And also added a little note regarding the price.

The substantive questions provided in Product 3 will continuously be developed, refined, and extended upon, but there may always be substantive questions that people or organizations want answered and are not part of the off-the-shelf offering. Liberate Science will provide a consulting process to help clients formulate their substantive question of interest, translate that to a (set of) indicators, and provide the computations.

Subsequently, these custom network analyses will feed back into Product 3, becoming available as off-the-shelf analyses. This means that the Product 4 clients are in effect paying for Liberate Science’s product development.

## Community & awareness

## Open worker co-operative

## Risks and other points of attention
Our [vision](#vision) is leading. Therefore, we must evaluate our effectivity by measuring progress towards this vision. Are researchers interested in our products? And do our products, when used, have the intended effect? What assumptions are we making regarding our target user group and how do we check these assumptions? How do we prepare the world for our product, as well as preparing our product for the world?

> When doing this, we must not be too invested in the specifics of the great ideas we have and remain aware of our own human biases. We must actively seek out collaboration and empower those interested in our work. We must be ready to admit our own mistakes and pivot when necessary.

Reviewer 2: "the great ideas" could be changed to "the ideas"? 😄

Author: No way! ;)

> As our vision is quite broad, but our resources are limited, we will need to take a step-by-step approach to development. We will need to define our minimum viable product that will provide value, but more importantly, a big learning opportunity. We will need to set milestones to provide clear direction and focus.

Reviewer 2: "We set a minimum viable product that provides the base value, and start the co-design process with the community we're trying to serve."

It may be powerful to explicitly say that we're using this process.

Author: Done!

> To ensure continuity of the project, we need to secure our funding and make sure our organisation isn't too reliant on specific individual workers.

Reviewer: what about making money from the products?

Author: Updated in the last commit

> To ensure continuity of the project, we need to secure our funding and make sure our organisation isn't too reliant on specific individual workers. Along the way, we will need to verify whether our revenue models are working and will provide sufficient income to continue our work.

Reviewer 2: > We will provide public financials for community members to inspect and to keep ourselves accountable towards the community.

Something like this is part of the plan for community accountability. I haven't thought this through as to the specifics, but I think it's good to include already.

Author: I agree - included!
